#Installation and Deployment#

There are currently multiple options for running ODM Tools Python: run from source, full installation, or 'no install' file option. The executable and zip files for the installation and no-install options are found on the GitHub site for each new release: https://github.com/UCHIC/ODMToolsPython/releases.

##Running from Source##
To run the program from source, the ODM Tools Python GitHub repository is cloned and ODM Tools directly. This requires that a user first configure a Python environment on his/her computer that has all of the requisite Python modules and components already installed. The required Python modules are described on the ODM Tools Python GitHub homepage: https://github.com/UCHIC/ODMToolsPython. This approach will work for Windows, Linux, and Macintosh operating systems and may be preferable for experienced Python users who want flexibility in how Python and the various components are installed. Running from source also permits developers to work on contributions to the code and permits immediate access to the latest versions of code.

##Full Installation##
ODM Tools Python has executable software installers for both Windows and Mac OS X. The installation includes a Python virtual environment within which the ODM Tools Python software runs. The virtual environment is an isolated working copy of Python that is deployed with the software and contains the correct version of all of the requisite Python modules. It does not require installing anything in the user’s existing Python environments and, therefore, will not conflict with any existing Python environments on the user’s computer.

##No Install File##
The no-install option consists of a zip file containing the Python virtual environment and the latest source code for ODM Tools that is extracted to the user's computer. The no-install option requires launching the main ODM Tools Python form from the Python console. This approach is preferable for users who may not have administrative access to run software installers on their computers. This option does not have any pre-requisites, as the Python environment delivered within the zip file contains Python and all of the required software libraries. 